@History of Python

Python is a widely used general-purpose, high-level programming language.
It was initially designed by Guido van Rossum in 1991 and developed by Python
Software Foundation. It was mainly developed for emphasis on code readability,
and its syntax allows programmers to express concepts in fewer lines of code.

In the late 1980s, history was about to be written.
It was that time when working on Python started.
Soon after that, Guido Van Rossum began doing its application based work in
December of 1989 by at Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica (CWI) which is situated

in Netherland. It was started firstly as a hobby project because he was looking for an interesting project to keep
him occupied during Christmas. The programming language which Python is said to have succeeded is ABC Programming Language,
which had the interfacing with the Amoeba Operating System and had the feature of exception handling.
He had already helped to create ABC earlier in his career and he had seen some issues with ABC but liked most of the
features. After that what he did as really very clever. He had taken the syntax of ABC, and some of its good features.
It came with a lot of complaints too, so he fixed those issues completely and had created a good scripting language which
had removed all the flaws. The inspiration for the name came from BBC’s TV Show – ‘Monty Python’s Flying Circus’,
as he was a big fan of the TV show and also he wanted a short, unique and slightly mysterious name for his invention and
hence he named it Python! He was the “Benevolent dictator for life” (BDFL) until he stepped down from the position as the
leader on 12th July 2018. For quite some time he used to work for Google, but currently, he is working at Dropbox.
The language was finally released in 1991. When it was released, it used a lot
fewer codes to express the concepts, when we compare it with Java, C++ & C.
Its design philosophy was quite good too. Its main objective is to provide code
readability and advanced developer productivity. When it was released it had
more than enough capability to provide classes with inheritance, several core
data types exception handling and functions


->Why to learn Python

Python’s popularity & high salary
Python is used in Data Science
Python’s scripting & automation
Python used with Big Data
Python supports Testing
Computer Graphics in Python
Python used in Artificial Intelligence
Python in Web Development
Python is portable & extensible
Python is simple & easy to learn

->How to Python Different

Python is open source

->Installing  pyhton
for windows
for unix
for mac

@Python Interpreter

->using the interpreter


->Integrated Development Environment(IDE) How to run python programming
for mac = python filename.py
for windows = python filename.py
for linux = python filename.py


